SOURCE: SDSU Loveman Collection (Brian Loveman) via The Cherokee Removal: A Brief History With Documents, ed. Perdue & Green (St. Martin's Press, 1995), p.116-7.
URL: https://loveman.sdsu.edu/docs/1830IndianRemovalAct.pdf
NOTE: Yale Avalon Project URL (https://avalon.law.yale.edu/19th_century/na030.asp) returns 404 as of April 2026.
---

Indian Removal Act (1830) 
May 28, 1830

An Act to provide for an exchange of lands with the Indians residing in
any of the states or territories, and for their removal west of the river
Mississippi.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America, in Congress assembled, That it shall and may be lawful
for the President of the United States to cause so much of any territory
belonging to the United States, west of the river Mississippi, not included
in any state or organized territory, and to which the Indian title has been
extinguished, as he may judge necessary, to be divided into a suitable
number of districts, for the reception of such tribes or nations of Indians
as may choose to exchange the lands where they now reside, and remove
there; and to cause each of said districts to be so described by natural or
artificial marks, as to be easily distinguished from every other.
Sec. 2 And be it further enacted, That it shall and may be lawful for the
President to exchange any or all of such districts, so to be laid off and
described, with any tribe or nation of Indians now residing within the
limits of any of the states or territories, and with which the United States
have existing treaties, for the whole or any part or portion of the territory
claimed and occupied by such tribe or nation, within the bounds of any
one or more of the states or territories, where the land claimed and
occupied by the Indians, is owned by the United States, or the United
States are bound to the state within which it lies to extinguish the Indian
claim thereto.
Sec. 3 And be it further enacted, That in the making of any such
exchange or exchanges, it shall and may be lawful for the President
solemnly to assure the tribe or nation with which the exchange is made,
that the United States will forever secure and guarantee to them, and
their heirs or successors, the country so exchanged with them; and if
they prefer it, that the United States will cause a patent or grant to be
made and executed to them for the same: Provided always, That such
lands shall revert to the United States, if the Indians become extinct, or
abandon the same.
Sec. 4 And be it further enacted, That if, upon any of the lands now
occupied by the Indians, and to be exchanged for, there should be such
improvements as add value to the land claimed by any individual or
individuals of such tribes or nations, it shall and may be lawful for the
President to cause such value to be ascertained by appraisement or
otherwise, and to cause such ascertained value to be paid to the person
or persons rightfully claiming such improvements. And upon the payment
of such valuation, the improvements so valued and paid for, shall pass to
the United States, and possession shall not afterwards be permitted to
any of the same tribe.
Sec. 5 And be it further enacted, That upon the making of any such
exchange as is contemplated by this act, it shall and may be lawful for
the President to cause such aid and assistance to be furnished to the
emigrants as may be necessary and proper to enable them to remove to,
and settle in, the country for which they may have exchanged; and also,
to give them such aid and assistance as may be necessary for their
support and subsistence for the first year after their removal.
Sec. 6 And be it further enacted, That it shall and may be lawful for the
President to cause such tribe or nation to be protected, at their new
residence, against all interruption or disturbance from any other tribe or
nation of Indians, or from any other person or persons whatever.
Sec. 7 And be it further enacted, That it shall and may be lawful for the
President to have the same superintendence and care over any tribe or
nation in the country to which they may remove, as contemplated by this
act, that he is now authorized to have over them at their present places
of residence: Provided, That nothing in this act contained shall be
construed as authorizing or directing the violation of any existing treaty
between the United States and any of the Indian tribes.
Sec. 8 And be it further enacted, That for the purpose of giving effect to
the provisions of this act, the sum of five hundred thousand dollars is
hereby appropriated, to be paid out of any money in the treasury, not
otherwise appropriated.
Taken from: The Cherokee Removal: A Brief History With Documents.
Edited by Theda Perdue and Michael D. Green. New York: St. Martin's
Press, 1995: p.116-7.