Lend Lease Act, 11 March 1941
AN ACT
Further to promote the defense of the United States, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate add House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
That this Act may be cited as "An Act to Promote the Defense of the United States".
SEC. 2. As used in this Act -
(a) The term "defense article" means -
(1) Any weapon, munition. aircraft, vessel, or boat;
(2) Any machinery, facility, tool, material, or supply necessary for the manufacture, production, processing, repair,
servicing, or operation of any article described in this subsection;
(3) Any component material or part of or equipment for any article described in this subsection;
(4) Any agricultural, industrial or other commodity or article for defense.
Such term "defense article" includes any article described in this subsection: Manufactured or procured pursuant to
section 3, or to which the United States or any foreign government has or hereafter acquires title, possession, or
control.
(b) The term "defense information" means any plan, specification, design, prototype, or information pertaining to
any defense article.
SEC. 3. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, the President may, from time to time. when he deems
it in the interest of national defense, authorize the Secretary Of War, the Secretary of the Navy, or the bead of any
other department or agency of the Government -
(1) To manufacture in arsenals, factories, and shipyards under their jurisdiction, or otherwise procure, to the
extent to which funds are made available therefor, or contracts are authorized from time to time by the Congress,
or both, any defense article for the government of any country whose defense the President deems vital to the
defense of the United States.
(2) To sell, transfer title to, exchange, lease, lend, or otherwise dispose of, to any such government any defense
article, but no defense article not manufactured or procured under paragraph (1) shall in any way be disposed of
under this paragraph, except after consultation with the Chief of Staff of the Army or the Chief of Naval Operations
of the Navy, or both. The value of defense articles disposed of in any way under authority of this paragraph, and
procured from funds heretofore appropriated, shall not exceed $1,300,000,000. The value of such defense articles
shall be determined by the head of the department or agency concerned or such other department, agency or
officer as shall be designated in the manner provided in the rules and regulations issued hereunder. Defense
articles procured from funds hereafter appropriated to any department or agency of the Government, other than
from funds authorized to he appropriated under this Act. shall not be disposed of in any way under authority of
this paragraph except to the extent hereafter authorized by the Congress in the Acts appropriating such funds or
otherwise.
(3) To test, inspect, prove, repair, outfit, recondition, or otherwise to place in good working order, to the extent to
which funds are made available therefor, or contracts are authorized from time to time by the Congress, or both,
any defense article for any such government, or to procure any or all such services by private contract.
(4) To communicate to any such government any defense information pertaining to any defense article furnished
to such government under paragraph (2) of this subsection.
(5) To release for export any defense article disposed of in any way under this subsection to any such
government.
(b) The terms and conditions upon which any such foreign government receives any aid authorized under
subsection (a) shall be those which the President deems satisfactory, and the benefit to the United States may he
payment or repayment in kind or property, or any other direct or indirect benefit which the President deems
satisfactory.
(c) After June 30, 1943, or after the passage of a concurrent resolution by the two Houses before June 30, 1943,
which declares that the powers conferred by or pursuant to subsection (a) are no longer necessary to promote the
defense of the United States, neither the President nor the head of any department or agency shall exercise any of
the powers conferred by or pursuant to subsection (a) except that until July 1, 1946, any of such powers may be
exercised to the extent necessary to carry out a contract or agreement with such a foreign government made
before July 1,1943, or before the passage of such concurrent resolution, whichever is the earlier.
(d) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize or to permit the authorization of convoying vessels by naval
vessels of the United States.
(e) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize or to permit the authorization of the entry of any American
vessel into a combat area in violation of section 3 of the neutrality Act of 1939.
SEC. 4 All contracts or agreements made for the disposition of any defense article or defense information pursuant
to section 3 shall contain a clause by which the foreign government undertakes that it will not, without the
consent of the President, transfer title to or possession of such defense article or defense information by gift, sale,
or otherwise, or permit its use by anyone not an officer, employee, or agent of such foreign government.
SEC. 5. (a) The Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, or the head of any other department or agency of the
Government involved shall when any such defense article or defense information is exported, immediately inform
the department or agency designated by the President to administer section 6 of the Act of July 2, 1940 (54 Stat.
714). of the quantities, character, value, terms of disposition and destination of the article and information so
exported.
(b) The President from time to time, but not less frequently than once every ninety days, shall transmit to the
Congress a report of operations under this Act except such information as he deems incompatible with the public
interest to disclose. Reports provided for under this subsection shall be transmitted to the Secretary of the Senate
or the Clerk of the House of representatives, as the case may be, if the Senate or the House of Representatives,
as the case may be, is not in session.
SEC. 6. (a) There is hereby authorized to be appropriated from time to time, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, such amounts as may be necessary to carry out the provisions and accomplish the
purposes of this Act.
(b) All money and all property which is converted into money received under section 3 from any government shall,
with the approval of the Director of the Budget. revert to the respective appropriation or appropriations out of
which funds were expended with respect to the defense article or defense information for which such
consideration is received, and shall be available for expenditure for the purpose for which such expended funds
were appropriated by law, during the fiscal year in which such funds are received and the ensuing fiscal year; but
in no event shall any funds so received be available for expenditure after June 30, 1946.
SEC. 7. The Secretary of War, the Secretary of the Navy, and the head of the department or agency shall in all
contracts or agreements for the disposition of any defense article or defense information fully protect the rights of
all citizens of the United States who have patent rights in and to any such article or information which is hereby
authorized to he disposed of and the payments collected for royalties on such patents shall be paid to the owners
and holders of such patents.
SEC. 8. The Secretaries of War and of the Navy are hereby authorized to purchase or otherwise acquire arms,
ammunition, and implements of war produced within the jurisdiction of any country to which section 3 is
applicable, whenever the President deems such purchase or acquisition to be necessary in the interests of the
defense of the United States.
SEC. 9. The President may, from time to time, promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary and
proper to carry out any of the provisions of this Act; and he may exercise any power or authority conferred on him
by this Act through such department, agency, or officer as be shall direct.
SEC. 10. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to change existing law relating to the use of the land and naval
forces of the United States, except insofar as such use relates to the manufacture, procurement, and repair of
defense articles, the communication of information and other noncombatant purposes enumerated in this Act.
SEC 11. If any provision of this Act or the application of such provision to any circumstance shall be held invalid,
the validity of the remainder of the Act and the applicability of such provision to other circumstances shall not be
affected thereby.
Approved, March 11, 1941.